President Obama:
Hi, everybody.
In this year of action, I
said I'd do everything
in my power to expand
opportunity
for more Americans.
And this week, I took
action to lift more
workers' wages by
requiring federal
contractors to pay their
employees a fair wage
of at least $10.10 an hour.
These are workers who
serve our troops' meals,
wash their dishes,
care for our veterans -
Americans who work hard
and will get a raise
as these contracts come up.
This will be good
for contractors, for
taxpayers, and for
America's bottom line.
We know why this
is important.
Our economy has been
growing for four years.
Our businesses have
created eight
and a half million new jobs.
But while those at the
top are doing better than
ever, average wages
have barely budged.
Too many Americans are
working harder than ever
just to get by, let
alone get ahead.
And that's been true since
long before
the recession hit.
That's why we've got to
build an economy that
works for everybody, not
just a fortunate few.
We've got to restore
opportunity for all
-- the notion that no matter who
you are or how you started
out, with hard work and
responsibility,
you can get ahead in America.
The opportunity agenda
I've laid out is built
on more new jobs that
pay good wages; better
training for folks to
fill those jobs;
a smarter education for our
kids; and making sure honest
work is rewarded.
And the action I took this
week will reward
hard work for more Americans.
But to finish the job,
Congress needs to act.
In the year since I first
asked Congress to raise
the minimum wage, six
states have passed
laws to raise theirs.
More states, cities,
counties, and companies
are taking steps
to join them.
An overwhelming majority
of Americans support
raising a minimum wage
that's worth about 20 percent
less than when Ronald
Reagan took office.
Right now, there's a bill
in Congress that would
boost America's minimum
wage to $10.10 an hour.
That's easy to
remember: ten-ten.
And remember, the average
worker who would get a
raise if Congress acts
is about 35 years old.
Most lower-wage jobs
are held by women.
And raising the minimum
wage wouldn't just raise
their wages - its effect
would lift wages for about
28 million Americans.
It would lift millions of
Americans out of poverty,
and help millions more
work their way out of
poverty - without
requiring a single dollar
in new taxes or spending.
It will give more
businesses more customers
with more money to spend -
and that means growing the
economy for everyone.
You deserve to know where
the people who represent
you stand on this.
If they don't support
raising the federal
minimum wage to ten-ten an
hour, ask them "why not?"
The opponents of raising
folks' wages have deployed
the same old arguments for
years, and time and again,
they've been proven wrong.
Let's prove them wrong
again,
and give America a raise.
Let's make opportunity
easier to come by for
every American who's
willing to work for it.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.